---
layout: post.liquid

title: Phones
description: "Bloody things."
tags: [computers]
is_draft: true
---

I bought a new one. It's a [OnePlus 3T](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OnePlus_3T) *(so not that new ~2016-17 vintage)*. I took a gamble and bought a second hand unit from ebay, and in this instance it seems to have paid off.

My two previous smartphones have both been low-end devices bought new for a similar amount to what I paid for the second hand OnePlus.

---

### A Brief History of Dave and Smartphones

I had an original 2014 [Motorolla Moto E](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moto_E_1st_generation) which was an excellent device, for the price and had official [CyanogenMod](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CyanogenMod) *(and then [LineageOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LineageOS))* support.

Lasted: 3 years *(and I definitely would have gotten 4 out of it if I hadn't fucked it across a hard floor)*.

I reluctantly replaced it *(after a droppy, smashy type incident)* with the third-gen version of the same phone, without doing my research. Turns out the [Moto E3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moto_E3) sprung for a surprisingly under powered MediaTek SOC with an abject lack of driver support from the manufacturer. Which stuck the device on the version of android it shipped with and hampered third-party ROM development.

Lasted: 3 years *(and it still works, it's just shite)*.

So with the lack of security updates and the latest material design toolkit updates seeming to make apps  USE ALL THE RAM leading to poor performance and instability that hadn't previously existed *(I'm looking at you, PocketCasts)*. I decided I was going to have to put my hand in my pocket.

---

### A Phone That's Not Shite

The OnePlus is lovely and snappy compared to the old Motorolla. It's got enough RAM that it doesn't choke on modern Android apps and one of those snazzy ARM CPUs with separate high and low power core complexes.

The user interface is responsive again, web browsing is actually do-able again, and I no longer have to do the ten second finger tap while waiting for heavy apps to load *(I'm looking at you, PocketCasts)*.

The *(non-removable)* battery, which was always going to be the biggest limitation in a ~3 year old device, seems to be in reasonable nick. I'm not a heavy user and I like to keep the installed app selection small. It will last a day *(~ 16 hours)* with moderate use; a bit of web browsing, a bit of messaging, a few short phone calls and a couple of hours of podcast or audiobook listening.

My only complaint about the OnePlus hardware is that it has the same design flaw as all current phones. I'ts roughly the size of my *face* and far too large to comfortably opperate one handed. It's also a bit of a slippery fish without a case.

---

### Taking Back Control

OnePlus ship their phones with OxygenOS which their custom Android distribution *(there is a separate build, with extra government spyware, for devices sold in China)*. And the 3T has only recently received its last official update *(4 years after it's initial release, not bad)*.

While their commitment to supporting their devices post-release is *(sadly)* impressive, I don't think I trust OnePlus as far as I can throw them. So the first thing I did when I received the device was replace the stock OS with LineageOS.

